Expand on bug control team, add bug squad (#133)
ubuntu/ubuntu-project-docs: docs/who-makes-ubuntu/specialist-teams/bug-control-team.md

(bug-control-team)=
# Ubuntu Bug Control

The Bug Control team is a subset of the {ref}`Ubuntu Bug Squad <bug-squad>` with
additional permissions.

The Ubuntu Bug Control team ([`ubuntu-bugcontrol`](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol)
in Launchpad) can change the importance of Ubuntu bug tasks, set the status of
an Ubuntu bug task to "Triaged" or "Won't Fix" and target a bug for a release
of Ubuntu.

Both individuals and teams can join the Ubuntu Bug Control team. This page
outlines how to join.

> ## Generic requirements

Author: Now that I see this, I don't like the anchor. It's too generic and likely to cause conflicts with other topics. I'll change it in the upcoming PR to something more suitable.

> ## Generic requirements

Author: Actually, reworking this a little so it isn't needed

: e-mail your application to `ubuntu-bugcontrol AT lists.launchpad.net`. In your
email, please copy and answer the following questions:

  1. Do you promise to be polite to bug reporters even if they are rude to you or
   Ubuntu? Have you signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct?

  1. Have you read Bugs/Triage, Bugs/Assignment, Bugs/Status and Bugs/Importance?
   Do you have any questions about that documentation?

  1. What sensitive data should you look for in a private Apport crash report bug
   before making it public? (See Bugs/Triage for more information)

  1. Is there a particular package or group of packages that you are interested
   in helping with?

  1. Please list five or more bug reports you have triaged, and include an
   explanation of your decisions. These bugs should be representative of your
   very best work and they should demonstrate your understanding of the triage
   process and how to properly handle bugs. For each bug in the list, please
   indicate what importance you would give it and explain the reasoning. Provide
   URLs in your list of bugs. 

```{note}

If you are an upstream developer, or a bug triager for an upstream project,

> contact [Brian Murray](https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray).

Author: I wanted to run that past the Debcrafters today, Brian is mentioned in multiple places in the Bug pages as "the" contact.

```
:::

:::{tab-item} **For teams**
:sync: teams

> One of your team's administrators should e-mail the team application to
> `ubuntu-bugcontrol AT lists.launchpad.net` -- please give us:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To submit the team application, one of the team's administrators emails it to
`ubuntu-bugcontrol AT lists.launchpad.net`. The application must contain:
```

> * A brief statement with the reasons why it is important for the team to be a
>   member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A brief statement with the reasons why it is important for the team to be a
  member.
```

> * A list of the Ubuntu source packages the team plans to work on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A list of the Ubuntu source packages the team plans to work on.
```

> * Identify who is/are the representative(s) -- give us the link to the
>   Launchpad page of each representative 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify of the representative(s) -- give us the link to the
  Launchpad page of each representative.
```

:::
::::

## Evaluation criteria and process

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} **For individuals**
:sync: individuals

The application review is a subjective process; however, this is a list of what
we usually look for:

> 1. Has the applicant provided the importance they would give a bug report?
> 1. Does the reasoning for the bug importance make sense?
> 1. Has the applicant provided an explanation for every bug provided? Is it logical?
> 1. Is the applicant respectful and tactful in their communications?
> 1. Are the applicant's comments detailed and do they explain their actions?
> 1. Is the applicant following the
>    [Debugging Procedures](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures) for the
>    package the bug report is about?
> 1. Has the applicant made bug titles or descriptions more descriptive?
> 1. Has the applicant added any bug watches to bug reports? (Linked bugs upstream)
> 1. Has the applicant forwarded any bugs upstream? (Registered in upstream bug
>    tracking system and reported a bug) 

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to me to be a list that has to be in a particular order.
```suggestion
*. Has the applicant provided the importance they would give a bug report?
*. Does the reasoning for the bug importance make sense?
*. Has the applicant provided an explanation for every bug provided? Is it logical?
*. Is the applicant respectful and tactful in their communications?
*. Are the applicant's comments detailed and do they explain their actions?
*. Is the applicant following the
   [Debugging Procedures](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures) for the
   package the bug report is about?
*. Has the applicant made bug titles or descriptions more descriptive?
*. Has the applicant added any bug watches to bug reports? (Linked bugs upstream)
*. Has the applicant forwarded any bugs upstream? (Registered in upstream bug
   tracking system and reported a bug) 
```

> The review process will take at least 7 days, to ensure that every Ubuntu Bug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The review process takes at least 7 days to ensure that every Ubuntu Bug
```
